Madam President, ladies and gentlemen,
It is an honor for me that I was chosen among the numerous MPs who
have relentlessly supported this UN mandate from the very beginning.
You can be sure that the work we are doing here are a fulcrum and a reason for hope.
Thousands of people wish that this work will be a success.
I thank South Africa and Ecuador for initiating this process,
and we know how difficult it has been.
We regret, although this is not a surprise, the negative and aggressive reaction of the USA
in this regard, and I am glad that the EU has since then given up
its reservations on the subject and joined the debate you are presiding Madam.
I must remind you of the importance of the task you have undertaken.
Anthropology teaches us that human communities built on the decision
that laws would apply to their populations and the territories they live on.
This process is the foundation of what we call the human civilization, as opposed to the reign of sheer force.
This process led to the conclusion of treaties against the danger of never-ending war between nations.
The emergence of multinational and transnational companies
led to a regression of civilization, since they are the only institutions
that can exert their power and influence without being sanctioned.
The proposal of an agreement that would compel them to respect the fundamental rights of humans
and their ecosystem is but an attempt to civilize globalization
and the consequences of the globalization of capitalism.
Mixing up multinational and transnational companies with other types of companies would be a deception.
A deception or a delaying manoeuvre.
Since we are now in Switzerland, let me cite the outcome of a study by Zurich's polytechnic school.
It was published five years ago, but its conclusions are undoubtedly even more severe today.
It came to the conclusion that 0.7% of world companies control 80% of global wealth,
and that only 147 companies control 40% of global economy.
It shows that three quarters of these 147 companies are financial companies
that are directly connected and fed by the global financial sphere.
Their power is proportionate to their turnover, and it would me a mistake to confuse
a multinational or a transnational company with a local garage or grocer's shop.
Exxon Mobil's turnover corresponds to Belgium's annual GDP and to twenty times the annual GDP of Bolivia.
Royal Dutch Shell's turnover is equivalent  to Sweden's or Argentina's GDP and to ten times that of Uruguay.
Toyota's turnover is equivalent to the GDP of Greece or Chile.
Total's turnover is equivalent to Portugal's GDP and to ten times that of Bolivia.
Samsung owns the equivalent of Qatar's GDP and three times the GDP of Ecuador
your country, Madam President.
These companies have the power to defend their interests against sovereign states in arbitral tribunals
that are not under the authority of any national legislation.
This goes against the most basic interests of populations.
Un poco mas despacio no ? (A bit slower, right?)
Thus, when the chemical company Ethyl sentenced Canada to pay a compensation of 13 million dollars
because of an economic damage due to the banning of a substance
that fouls up engines and causes diseases.
The same thing happened to Slovakia, who was sentenced to pay 22 million euros to Achmea,
an insurance company, because the government of Slovakia abandoned
the privatization policies in the sector of health in 2006.
Philip Morris sued Uruguay and Australia because they implemented
anti-tobacco policies in the interest of public health.
These companies are not only capable of forcing states
to pay huge fines, that in some instances may ruin them, they can also exert pressure over
states and their democratic institutions, and threaten them
so that they give up passing laws that could earn them a lawsuit from these companies.
Meanwhile, people and nations do not have the means to oppose these companies' abuses.
A restrictive agreement could therefore provide them with legal means to oppose these companies.
Refusing this agreement amounts to accepting that these companies
keep acting as if they were almighty.
Relying on the goodwill or the volunteering of companies is being naïve
because these companies are merciless in their cupidity.
This agreement must necessarily be restrictive.
It must include the responsibility of multinationals in the entire line of production
on a global scale, including subcontractors.
It must also include the personal responsibility of the managers involved in
the decision-making process against whom nations are opposed.
In these conditions of course, these companies could in no way be included
in the definition of the framework that is being negotiated.
My conclusion is getting closer, and I would like to emphasize the points that to me are necessary
in order to create a really restrictive framework,
meaning a framework that is based on the popular action of citizens:
It is necessary to include the obligations of protecting and repairing the global
ecosystem as a fundamental right that must be respected.
This means that in addition to the standards of the International Labor Organization
and of the World Health Organization that are references,
ecocide must be considered a crime until a climatic tribunal is created,
as was proposed by Bolivia.
Secondly, legal actions undertook in the framework of this new restrictive treaty
must be absolutely free and cost nothing.
Thirdly, legal actions must be a tool available to
groups, unions and communities, and not just to states and individuals.
Fourthly, the free access to legal actions must be guaranteed
by a special tax on multinational and transnational companies.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the public opinions of European countries
are on the watch concerning the risks of global free trade.
These public opinions are already strongly opposed to agreements such as
the TAFTA agreement. They are glad that the CETA agreement with Canada was abandoned
thanks to the courage of Belgium and Wallonia.
Madam, you are to submit your baseline report in October 2017.
On this date, there will be a new president for my country,
and for Germany as well a year later.
As for me, I commit myself to making your work, the work of your working group
and the UN mandate a topic for national debate on which citizens will give their opinion.